# Results from rhub::check_for_cran()

## Windows Server 2022


Build ID:	flowdex_0.4.1.tar.gz-1e71635eb4bb4120a393a3a26204b0ab    
Platform:	Windows Server 2022, R-devel, 64 bit    
Submitted:	12 minutes 17 seconds ago    
Build time:	12 minutes 12.1 seconds    

NOTES:    
* checking CRAN incoming feasibility ... NOTE    
Maintainer: 'Bernhard Pollner <bernhard.pollner@mac.com>'    
    
    

New submission

Non-FOSS package license (file LICENSE)

Possibly misspelled words in DESCRIPTION:
  FCS (3:52)
  cytometry (9:118)
  fcs (9:252)
  flowdex (9:239)
  volumetric (9:278)
* checking R code for possible problems ... NOTE
Found the following calls to attach():
File 'flowdex/R/zzz.R':
  attach(what = NULL, name = nsp)
See section 'Good practice' in '?attach'.   
* checking for detritus in the temp directory ... NOTE
Found the following files/directories:
  'lastMiKTeXException'


## Ubuntu Linux

flowdex 0.4.1: PREPERROR    
Build ID:	flowdex_0.4.1.tar.gz-8015593f440a4be695e89b443c9fe8c1     
Platform:	Ubuntu Linux 20.04.1 LTS, R-release, GCC    
Submitted:	46 minutes 36.3 seconds ago    
Build time:	46 minutes 32.7 seconds    
    
    

## Fedora Linux

flowdex 0.4.1: PREPERROR    
Build ID:	flowdex_0.4.1.tar.gz-0ade8e0245b2436d8fc13a08ab53d9d0    
Platform:	Fedora Linux, R-devel, clang, gfortran    
Submitted:	47 minutes 29.1 seconds ago    
Build time:	47 minutes 23.8 seconds    
    
    

## Regarding the Prep-Error on Ubuntu and Fedora Linux
If I am interpreting this error message correctly, then an error occurred when **preparing** to run package flowdex, not in package flowdex itself.
   
    
This is peculiar, as the run on Ubuntu as provided by **Github** is executing smoothly:
[https://github.com/bpollner/flowdex/actions/runs/1990060024](https://github.com/bpollner/flowdex/actions/runs/1990060024)


# Results from devtools::check_win_devel()

2 Notes:   
* checking CRAN incoming feasibility ... NOTE
Maintainer: 'Bernhard Pollner <bernhard.pollner@mac.com>'

New submission

Non-FOSS package license (file LICENSE)

Possibly misspelled words in DESCRIPTION:
  FCS (3:52)
  bivariate (9:62)
  cytometry (9:118)
  fcs (9:252)
  flowdex (9:239)
   
   
* checking R code for possible problems ... [21s] NOTE
Found the following calls to attach():
File 'flowdex/R/zzz.R':
  attach(what = NULL, name = nsp)
See section 'Good practice' in '?attach'.

See [https://win-builder.r-project.org/9txt07HvQHTm/](https://win-builder.r-project.org/9txt07HvQHTm/)
   
   

*****


# Regarding the non-FOSS license
This is due to the limitations imposed by [package flowWorkspace](https://bioconductor.org/packages/release/bioc/html/flowWorkspace.html)



*****

# Regarding the call to "attach()"
Please allow me to explain why I strongly believe that the call to "attach" is perfectly justified in this case:

Attach(), and also detach(), is called from the .onLoad and the .onUnload function. In this case, attach() is required for the functionality of the required package „uniset“ (of which I am the author as well.)

[https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=uniset](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=uniset)
[https://bpollner.github.io/uniset/](https://bpollner.github.io/uniset/)



This is the code of the .onLoad and .onUnload function in package flowdex.
This code has been generated by package uniset, and it is required for the functionality provided by uniset.
```
.onLoad <- function(libname, pkgname) {
#
nsp <- "pkg_flowdex_envs"												
## is defining the name on the search path

if (!any(grepl(nsp, search()))) {attach(what=NULL, name=nsp)}				
## create a new entry on the search path if not already there

assign(".flowdex_unisetEnv", new.env(), pos=nsp)									
## create a new environment called ".flowdex_unisetEnv"

assign("pkgUniset_UserPackageName","flowdex", envir=.flowdex_unisetEnv)		
## the name of the target package using the uniset system

assign("pkgUniset_RenvironSettingsHomeName","flowdex_SH", envir=.flowdex_unisetEnv)		
## the name of the variable in the .Renviron file that contains the path to the user-defined settings-home

assign("pkgUniset_EnvironmentName",".flowdex_settingsEnv", envir=.flowdex_unisetEnv)		
## the name of the environment containing the settings for the package using 'uniset. 

assign("pkgUniset_SettingsObjectName","settings", envir=.flowdex_unisetEnv)			
## the name of the object (within the environment defined above) that is containing the settings-list.

assign("pkgUniset_SuffixForTemplate","_TEMPLATE", envir=.flowdex_unisetEnv)		
## the character string that should be appended to the fresh settings file 
#
} # EOF


.onUnload <- function(libpath) {
	if (any(grepl("pkg_flowdex_envs", search()))) {detach(name="pkg_flowdex_envs")}
} # EOF
```

As I am the author of package „uniset“, I of course checked thoroughly the success of the detachment of the previously attached environment resp. namespace-entry.. 
As it says in the „Good Practice“ rules, attach() should be followed by detach() — yes, this is the case here. As soon as the package flowdex stops using the functionality of package uniset, the entry on the search path is detached. 


It was suggested to use using namespace mechanisms then:
If ai am understanding the implications of that suggestion correctly, it says that the required objects should be exported in a namespace.
But this is not possible, as package uniset serves the target package (in my case the package flowdex) a  custom tailored environment containing custom tailored objects.  It is not possible for package uniset to have static content in its namespace; this would defeat the purpose. Package uniset has to serve custom tailored objects to the target package (flowdex in this case), hence the implementation of that in the .onLoad and .onUnload function.  As I pointed out, the content of these two functions have been written by package uniset. 

It would also defeat the purpose if package uniset would write something to be exported in the namespace of package flowdex, as then we would have a naming problem: If the name is specific, then how to let package uniset know that name? If the name is general and then hardcoded into package uniset, this would make it impossible for more than one package at the same time to use package uniset, potentially leading to errors and confusion.  (If one looks at the walk-through example at [https://bpollner.github.io/uniset/](https://bpollner.github.io/uniset) it will be clearer what I mean).



Additionally, it is not some data frame or so that gets attached, what, admittedly, could easily lead to confusing and error-prone situations. 
As one can see in the code above, what gets attached to the search path is one environment containing 5 objects with long names, containing full package name etc. The chances of these names being used again by someone else are practically zero. 

As I pointed out, the environment contains 5 objects with long and very specific names that need to be found  by package uniset.  Attaching these 5 objects in the .onLoad function (of the target package, flowdex in this case)  is the only way that I as the author of package uniset found to hand over these objects.

The use of attach() here is not in the sense as described frowned upon in the Good Practice rules. 
To sum it up, I can not think of any situation where attaching these 5 objects in their environment could lead to problems.
   
Bernhard Pollner, 16.03.2022

