YEAR: 2022
COPYRIGHT HOLDER: Bernhard Pollner


Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person 
obtaining a copy of this software, the R-package "flowdex" 
and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to use 
the software exclusively for academic purposes. 

This includes the right to copy, modify, merge, publish and 
distribute copies of the software, and to permit persons to 
whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the 
following conditions:

- The above copyright notice and this license file shall be 
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

- The sole permitted purpose of the software "flowdex" is 
academic research.

- Restrictions: Non-academic or commercial use, including, but 
not limited to development of derivative works for commercial 
purposes including consulting is not permitted under this 
license.

- Additional Restrictions:  Derivative works must be free, 
open source, and non-commercial, academic, research only. 
Commercial and internal business use is not permitted.



THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY 
KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE 
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE 
AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT 
HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, 
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING 
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR 
OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
